the brain is the center of all of our
thoughts dreams emotions and memories is
what makes us who we are but there's
still a lot we don't know about the
brain scientists have worked for years
on trying to understand the human brain
using techniques like EEG and fMRI where
we scan the brain from the outside but
what if we could look inside the brains
of humans and watch them as they work
well now we can by looking at the brains
of people who are already going through
surgery for clinical reasons like curing
epilepsy epilepsy is a disease in which
a faulty part of the brain starts
working spontaneously for no apparent
reason it's like an earthquake but
inside your head there is no way to know
in advance when a seizure worker so the
patient's are always at risk of
unexpectedly losing control there are
drugs that treat epilepsy but these
don't always work some patients who
don't respond well to the drugs can
undergo a different treatment where the
faulty part in their brain the part that
starts the seizures is surgically
removed the challenge is knowing which
part to take out how do you figure out
which bit of the brain is faulty in
order to find the exact location of the
seizure onset doctors embed electrodes
directly into the patient's brain around
the suspected seizure center the patient
then stays in a hospital for a few days
waiting to have a seizure with the
electrodes constantly recording the
activity inside is or her brain yes now
we want the patient to have a seizure
so doctors can use the embedded
electrodes to memory and learn exactly
where it origin was after doctors are
sure where the seizures come from in the
brain they can take the electrodes out
now they know what part of the brain
they can remove in order to cure the
patient these brain electrodes can tell
us more than just where the seizures
happened based on where the doctors
place the electrodes in the brain we can
ask questions about what the brain does
sometimes we find one cell that starts
bursting in activity every time the
patient sees a particular picture for
example a picture of Marilyn Monroe
see every time the patient sees Marilyn
Monroe some specific cells fire in the
brain we can now know when the patient
is thinking of Marilyn Monroe just by
listening to these cells fire when we
find one or a few of these cells with
each patient we can then do all kinds of
fancy things for example we can connect
the recording electrode to a cursor on a
screen and have the patient move the
cursor left or right just by thinking of
things this can help people who lost the
ability to move their hands like people
spinal cord injuries or wounded soldiers
by having them control a prosthetic arm
directly with their brain our brain is a
brilliant device which can make
predictions about the future for example
we can all know which word will appear
at the end of this sentence the brain
can solve complicated problems imagine
the entire universe and grasp concepts
such as infinity or unicorns the brain
produces complex emotions like love or
jealousy it is what makes us creative
and curious and it can even contemplate
about itself and the brain is the organ
we use to study the brain I think that
the brain is the most beautiful organ in
our body but then I ask myself which
organ is making me think that
you